pkg/core/consensus/agreement/README.md, before:

# Agreement component

This package implements the component which performs the [Agreement Phase](./agreement.md) of the consensus.

<!-- ToC start -->

## Contents

section will be filled in here by markdown-toc

<!-- ToC end -->

## Values

### Block Agreement Event


| Field                          | Type          |
| :------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| Aggregated public keys\*       | BLS APK       |
| Committee bit-representation\* | uint64        |
| Aggregated signatures\*        | BLS Signature |
| Signature of all fields        | BLS Signature |

\* These fields appear twice, once for each step of [Reduction](../reduction/reduction.md).

## Architecture

The `Agreement` component is implemented within the `Loop` struct, found in `step.go`.

This struct contains all the data and logic that the agreement component needs to do its job. Unlike the other consensus components, the `Loop` struct implements `ControlFn`, as the component works slightly differently to the others - it needs to be started concurrently to the other components, and not in sequence.

The agreement component is given access to the DB, and has an instance of a `candidate.Requestor`, which can be used to request certain pending blocks from the network.

### Main component

When the agreement component starts up (with the `Run` function), it flushes all queued agreement events for the given round, and passes them directly to the processing function (`collectEvent`). Afterwards, the component starts listening on three different channels:

- The `agreementChan`, which transports agreement events from the eventbus to the agreement component
- The `CollectedVotesChan`, which collects final results from the [accumulator](#accumulator)
- The `ctx.Done` channel, which notifies the agreement component of context cancellations

Events sent through the `agreementChan` will go immediately to the processing function, `collectEvent`. This sends the event off to the local `Accumulator`.

Once a final result is received through the `CollectedVotesChan`, the agreement component checks the DB to see if a candidate for the resulting block hash exists. If not, it makes use of its own `candidate.Requestor` to fetch it from the network, instead. The winning block is then returned, and the agreement component will stop running.

### Accumulator

For each call to the `Run` function, the agreement component instantiates a new `Accumulator`. This component is responsible for sorting agreement events by step, and keeps track of how many times an event is seen for a given step. Internally, it uses a `handler` which has access to the consensus committee - allowing the `Accumulator` to perform verification, as well as keep track of how close a given step is to **quorum**. Once a step reaches said quorum, the `Accumulator` sends back the collected votes for this step, through the `CollectedVotesChan`, sending it back directly to the main agreement component.

Under the hood, the `Accumulator` makes use of a thread pool in order to parallelize event verification and storage. The amount of workers is configurable, but is standardly set to 4.

To store events, the `Accumulator` uses a `store`, which is a thread-safe wrapper around a map.

<!-- 
# to regenerate this file's table of contents:
markdown-toc README.md --replace --skip-headers 2 --inline --header "##  Contents"
-->

---

Copyright © 2018-2022 Dusk Network
[MIT Licence](https://github.com/dusk-network/dusk-blockchain/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Completed new merged README.mds for pkg/core/consensus

pkg/core/consensus/agreement/README.md, after:

# Agreement component

This package implements the component which performs the [Agreement Phase](./agreement.md) of the consensus.

<!-- ToC start -->

## Contents

section will be filled in here by markdown-toc

<!-- ToC end -->


## Abstract

During the conduction of a technical analysis of sortition based consensus algorithms, the team has discovered a vulnerability, which increases the probability of a the consensus forking, dubbed a _timeout fork_. As a result, the team has concluded that SBA requires an additional step in the inner loop to guarantee statistical finality under the basic assumptions of the protocol.

`Block Agreement` is an asynchronous algorithm running in parallel with the inner loop. Successful termination of the algorithm indicates that the relevant inner loop has been successfully executed and the protocol can proceed to the next loop. The algorithm provides a statistical guarantee that at least one honest node has received a set of votes exceeding the minimum threshold required to successfully terminate the respective phase of the protocol.

## Values

### Block Agreement Event


| Field                          | Type          |
| :------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| Aggregated public keys\*       | BLS APK       |
| Committee bit-representation\* | uint64        |
| Aggregated signatures\*        | BLS Signature |
| Signature of all fields        | BLS Signature |

\* These fields appear twice, once for each step of [Reduction](../reduction/reduction.md).

## Architecture

The `Agreement` component is implemented within the `Loop` struct, found in `step.go`.

This struct contains all the data and logic that the agreement component needs to do its job. Unlike the other consensus components, the `Loop` struct implements `ControlFn`, as the component works slightly differently to the others - it needs to be started concurrently to the other components, and not in sequence.

The agreement component is given access to the DB, and has an instance of a `candidate.Requestor`, which can be used to request certain pending blocks from the network.

### Main component

When the agreement component starts up (with the `Run` function), it flushes all queued agreement events for the given round, and passes them directly to the processing function (`collectEvent`). Afterwards, the component starts listening on three different channels:

- The `agreementChan`, which transports agreement events from the eventbus to the agreement component
- The `CollectedVotesChan`, which collects final results from the [accumulator](#accumulator)
- The `ctx.Done` channel, which notifies the agreement component of context cancellations

Events sent through the `agreementChan` will go immediately to the processing function, `collectEvent`. This sends the event off to the local `Accumulator`.

Once a final result is received through the `CollectedVotesChan`, the agreement component checks the DB to see if a candidate for the resulting block hash exists. If not, it makes use of its own `candidate.Requestor` to fetch it from the network, instead. The winning block is then returned, and the agreement component will stop running.

### Accumulator

For each call to the `Run` function, the agreement component instantiates a new `Accumulator`. This component is responsible for sorting agreement events by step, and keeps track of how many times an event is seen for a given step. Internally, it uses a `handler` which has access to the consensus committee - allowing the `Accumulator` to perform verification, as well as keep track of how close a given step is to **quorum**. Once a step reaches said quorum, the `Accumulator` sends back the collected votes for this step, through the `CollectedVotesChan`, sending it back directly to the main agreement component.

Under the hood, the `Accumulator` makes use of a thread pool in order to parallelize event verification and storage. The amount of workers is configurable, but is standardly set to 4.

To store events, the `Accumulator` uses a `store`, which is a thread-safe wrapper around a map.

<!-- 
# to regenerate this file's table of contents:
markdown-toc README.md --replace --skip-headers 2 --inline --header "##  Contents"
-->

---

Copyright © 2018-2022 Dusk Network
[MIT Licence](https://github.com/dusk-network/dusk-blockchain/blob/master/LICENSE)
